Konnect runtime groups intro + how tos (#3770)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/index.md

no_version: true
---

The [Runtime Manager](https://konnect.konghq.com/runtime-manager)
is a {{site.konnect_saas}} functionality module
that lets you catalogue, connect to, and monitor the status of all runtime
groups and instances in one place, as well as manage group configuration.

The Runtime Manager overview page displays a list of
runtime groups currently owned by the organization. From here, you can add or
delete runtime groups, or go into each individual group to manage runtime
instances and their global configuration.

> _[screenshot of overview page]_

Author: Do we have a test environment somewhere where I could grab a useful screenshot?

Reviewer: If what's available in https://cloud.konghq.tech is not sufficient. Then the next closet thing are the mocks:
https://www.figma.com/file/G4xvSqX30F2vxrJmesZuke/Runtime-Groups-(Helium)?node-id=1087%3A61521

Reviewer 2: Let's wait for it to be in an environment where we can take a screenshot. Mocks will be misleading

Author: Pushing this out to post phase 1 so that we have a stable environment first. Not sure that all the labels etc are really correct at the moment.

With {{site.konnect_short_name}} acting as the control plane, a runtime instance
doesn't need a database to store configuration data. Instead, configuration

> is stored in-memory on each node, and you can easily update multiple runtime
> instances from one {{site.konnect_short_name}} account with a few clicks.

Reviewer: To avoid overloading the terms `multiple runtimes` and `multiple runtime groups`, I've heard Reza use "runtime clusters" to describe the same thing. 

Just a tiny suggestion, use if you like it.
```suggestion
is stored in-memory on each node, and you can easily update clusters of runtimes from one {{site.konnect_short_name}} account with a few clicks.
```

Reviewer 2: Isn't the collective name for multiple runtime instances a runtime group? (technically a RG is the CP, but in practice it's all config for a set of instances?

Author: This sentence made more sense back when it was describing a pre-RG environment. I do want to get across the idea that you can apply config to lots of instances at once, so maybe something like this:

> you can easily update all runtime instances in a group with a few clicks.

no_version: true
---

The [Runtime Manager](https://konnect.konghq.com/runtime-manager)
is a {{site.konnect_saas}} functionality module
that lets you catalogue, connect to, and monitor the status of all runtime
groups and instances in one place, as well as manage group configuration.

The Runtime Manager overview page displays a list of
runtime groups currently owned by the organization. From here, you can add or
delete runtime groups, or go into each individual group to manage runtime
instances and their global configuration.

_<screenshot of overview page; do we have a test environment somewhere where I could

> grab a useful screenshot?>_

Author: Do we have a test environment somewhere where I could grab a useful screenshot?

script to provision a {{site.base_gateway}} runtime in a Docker container,
eliminating any confusion about initial configuration or setup.

## Runtime groups

Konnect manages runtime configuration in runtime groups. Each runtime group acts
as a separate control plane and can manage runtime configurations independently
of any other group. See [runtime groups](/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-groups)
for more information.

## Types of runtimes

> Every runtime instance in a group must be of the same type.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this + the following explanation until we support more than just Gateway. I wasn't thinking about multiple runtime types until I read it here

script to provision a {{site.base_gateway}} runtime in a Docker container,
eliminating any confusion about initial configuration or setup.

## Runtime groups

Konnect manages runtime configuration in runtime groups. Each runtime group acts
as a separate control plane and can manage runtime configurations independently
of any other group. See [runtime groups](/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-groups)
for more information.

## Types of runtimes

> Each runtime group connects to its own runtime instances. Every runtime instance

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this line. It made me think that I could only run `docker` instances, or `vm` instances and not mix and match. The followup line explains enough

in a group must be of the same type.

Currently, the only supported runtime type in the
{{site.konnect_saas}} application is a [{{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/)
data plane.

### Kong Gateway

A {{site.base_gateway}} runtime instance acts as a data plane, which is a node
serving traffic for the proxy. Data plane nodes are not directly connected

> to a database. They receive configuration

Reviewer 2: TODO: Finish this sentence

Author: Whoops 😅
